---
title: "QR algorithm: finding eigenvalues"
categories:
  - Math
tags:
  - math
last_modified_at: 2018-01-02T17:20:43-06:00
---

### Motivation
A lot of iterative algorithms exist in linear algebra to find eigenvalues of symmetric matrices. QR algorithm addresses the issue of finding eigenvalues of **nonsymmetric matrices** as well. More accurately this algorithm can find real eigenvalues but compley ones are not treated well.

### How does it work?

Assume we have a matrix **A** with real eigenvalues. Then it is possible to find an orthogonal **Q** and an upper-rectangular **R** matrix such that:

\begin{equation}
A = Q \cdot R.
\end{equation}

For clarity:

* orthogonality means: $Q \cdot Q^T = E$,
* upper-rectangula a matrix if each element under its diagonal is zero.

Because of the orthogonality:

\begin{equation}
Q^T \cdot A = R.
\end{equation}

Then after applying **Q** from the right side we get another matrix. Repeating this process more times known as the QR-iteration.

\begin{equation}
A_{m+1} = Q_m^T \cdot A_m \cdot Q_m
\end{equation}

Again, due to the fact that **Q** is an orthogonal matrix the spectra of **A** remains unchanged after one step of the iteration. After enough step the series of $A_m$-s will converge to an upper-rectangular matrix for which the eigenvalues are given as the diagonal elements (think of the determinant). The next question is how to calculate a right **Q**? This can be achieved by a rotation-like transformation. Each transformation makes an element become zero under the diagonal. The picture below shows such a matrix:

TODO: picture

In order to calculate $\theta_{ij}$:

\begin{equation}
-sin \theta_{ij} \cdot a_jj + cos \theta_{ij} a_{ij} = 0 \rightarrow tg \theta_{ij} = \frac{a_{ij}}{a_{jj}}.
\end{equation}

It can be possible that $a_{jj}$ is zero, then $\theta_{ij} = \frac{\pi}{2}$.

### Overview of the algorithm

1. m = 1 and $A_m = A$.
2. Determine an $S_{ij}$ to create zero under the diagonal of $A_m$ in *row i* and *column j*.
3. Repeat step 2 until all of the elements become zero under the diagonal.
4. Multiply the $S_{ij}$ matrices to get the $Q_m$ matrix.
5. Apply equation 3.
6. Repeat from step 2 until $A_m$ is close enough to an upper-rectangular matrix.
7. The eigenvalues are given as the elements of the diagonal in the last $A_m$ matrix.

For the implementational details and for specific examples see the corresponding jupyter notebook on GitHub.

<a href="https://github.com/adamtiger/ai/blob/code/QRiteration/QR.ipynb" target="_blank" class="btn btn-success"><i class="fa fa-github fa-lg"></i> Code on GitHub</a>
